---
layout: page
title: Opportunities
---
### Postdoc Positions (Applications Currently Being Accepted)
The EcoGRAPH group is looking for two new postdoctoral research associates to join our team. These individuals will work on two exciting new research projects: 1) Drought, Fire, and Forest Carbon Dynamics in West Africa (supported by the NASA Carbon Cycle Science program), and 2) Urban Microclimates and Disease Transmission in India (supported by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases). For both positions, a Ph.D. with research experience using satellite Earth observations is required. The Ph.D. must be completed before starting the position. The desired candidate would have strong writing and communication skills combined with programming experience using relevant platforms such as R, Python, or the Google Earth Engine API. Strong interest in studying fire and forest dynamics, urban systems, or vector-borne disease ecology is also desirable. These positions are available as early as September 1, 2021, although a later start date is negotiable, and will remain open until filled. To apply, please send a letter of interest and a CV to Dr. Mike Wimberly at mcwimberly@ou.edu. For more information, please see the following document.

[Postdoctoral Positions in Satellite Remote Sensing for Monitoring Global Change](https://github.com/EcoGRAPH/ecograph.github.io/blob/master/docs/EcoGRAPH_postdoc_29JUL2021.pdf)

### Graduate Students
Dr. Wimberly advises graduate students in Geography and Environmental Sustainability who are interested in pursuing research on environmental change and its impacts on disease transmission and human and animal health. Most of the work we do is highly interdisciplinary and falls under the rubric of emerging fields such as GeoHealth, One Health, and Planetary Health. Specific areas of expertise include the effects of climate and land use on vector-borne pathogens and forest landscape dynamics in temperature and tropical ecosystems. The research conducted by our group also encompasses a broader range of topics related to land use and land cover change as well as health geography. Prospective graduate students should have strong interest in one of these areas with relevant coursework or professional experience. Much of our work involves processing and analyzing large geospatial datasets, and skill with computer programming is essential for these tasks. 

Student who are interested in graduate study in the Department of Geography and Environmental Sustainability should visit the department's [Graduate Programs](https://www.ou.edu/ags/geography/degree-programs/graduate-program) page for more information. Funding is sometimes available through graduate research assistantships (GRA), which are typically associated with research grants. If a GRA is available, we will put out a specific announcement to recruit applicants for that position. Funding is also  available through a limited number of graduate teaching assistant (GTA) positions that are offered by the department. Selection of GTAs is a competitive process that is conducted at the department level. To be considered for GTA funding, the submission deadlines are January 15 for the next fall semester and September 1 for the next spring semester. Students who are interested in studying with Dr. Wimberly should submit an inquiry well in advance of these dates. Send a statement of research interests, CV, and copies of transcripts to Dr. Mike wimberly at mcwimberly@ou.edu. 


